assets/thumbnails/thumbnail_rationale.asciidoc, before:

== #214 About Thumbnails

Within issue _#214 YouTube video post-processing_ one item of the checkboxset is: 

_Select nice thumbnails for the videos. If the proposed ones are bad one can upload an image (e.g. a video still) for the videos_

I was not engaged with thumbnails before, so I first tried to get some information about how deal with that.
After some research in the internet about thumbnails I found some helping rules for creating good thumbnails.

There are lot of rules, but that’s the one’s I liked most:

* show not only graphic, show emotions and people
* do not make your textsize to small, keep it short and readable
* show purpose, is it a training, a story, or whatever
* show a recognition factor, e.g. your branding

So looking at some examples I tried to figure out what that means, follow my examples.


*Example #1:*

I would have included some screenshoots, but since I have some doubts about violating any copyright issues, please have a look
 at the thumbnails of the following link's on youtube. This makes it not as clearly visible as with my screenshots before, but I guess you will see it, otherwise just contact me:


_How to peel a pineapple_

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P2_WqZ834-o

_How to peel a mango_

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Xw-rPb42kY

_How to peel a watermelon_

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Cor6_btAWA


I like that in the first shot, but there are also some con's in relation to our situtation

*pro's*

*  even if you not see a person, the hands show action and make me curious
*  the mango video has a text which describes in view words what I can expect if I choose to look that video
*  a good approach for a uniform design

*con's*

* different text styles
* the watermelon video has a different size of the board, which disturbes the unity
* no branding

*Example #2:*

This youtube example has a pretty clear thumbnail but also there is a list of con's

_Kotlin Tutorial Deutsch für Anfänger - das moderne Java_

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HcFY9NSgXkk&list=PLNmsVeXQZj7rylgyThgUldHG8KE6Nbc1O

*pro's* 

* short text, big letters
* branding clearly visible

*con's*

* no time stamps
* no people, no emotions
* each thumbnail is the same

*Example #3:*

This similar to example #2, but here you can see clearly the disadvantage of to small text

_Git & GitHub Tutorial for Beginners_

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3RjQznt-8kE&list=PL4cUxeGkcC9goXbgTDQ0n_4TBzOO0ocPR

*pro's* 

* branding clearly visible

*con's*

* to much text, to small letters
* no people, no emotions
* each thumbnail is the same


*Example #4:*

Look at this example. That's great regaring people and emotion, but has no branding or purpose. For TED I guess this is ok, for us I guess the branding should be visible.

_The 20 Most-Watched TEDTalks_

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iG9CE55wbtY&list=PL70DEC2B0568B5469

*pro's*

* showing people and emotions

*con's*

* no branding
* no purpose



*So, what's my conclusion:*

* I  would propose to kepp showing the speakers
* I would propose to add branding
* I would propose to have a bold text what it is about.

There are already good frames choosen for each video, showing people and emotions, which I really like and from my point of view
they are already inviting to have a look into the video. 

But, to fullfill the upper rules I added:

* the _InnerSource_ logo in a colored box, color is the same as on our home page. This for having the recognition factor
* added the internet name of our homepage. (I tried to find the same font)
* added purpose by pointing it out as Learning Path and the section it is about.
* added chapter number and title of the chapter. Looking at the result I guess this is still to small font size, meanwhile I tend to leave the title out
and only show the number.

Here some examples:

image::example5.jpg[]

Commit message:

How to create a new Learning Path section (#562)
* Update thumbnail_rationale.asciidoc

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

* Update scripts/README.md

Taking @spier's suggested change to numbering format.

Co-authored-by: Sebastian Spier <github@spier.hu>

* Update scripts/README.md

Taking @spier's suggested spacing change.

Co-authored-by: Sebastian Spier <github@spier.hu>

* Update scripts/README.md

Taking @spier's suggested spacing changes.

Co-authored-by: Sebastian Spier <github@spier.hu>

* Update scripts/README.md

Taking @spier's suggested numbering changes.

Co-authored-by: Sebastian Spier <github@spier.hu>

* Update assets/thumbnails/thumbnail_rationale.asciidoc

Co-authored-by: Laura <935915+marshmallowrobot@users.noreply.github.com>

* Embiggen the letters for formatting consistency

As suggested by @marshmallowrobot

---------

Co-authored-by: Laura <935915+marshmallowrobot@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Sebastian Spier <github@spier.hu>

assets/thumbnails/thumbnail_rationale.asciidoc, after:

== How To Make A New Thumbnail

. Open `thumbnail_template.odg` (in this folder).
. Save as new file.
. Adjust text and image.
. Export as JPG.


== #214 About Thumbnails

Within issue _#214 YouTube video post-processing_ one item of the checkboxset is: 

_Select nice thumbnails for the videos. If the proposed ones are bad one can upload an image (e.g. a video still) for the videos_

I was not engaged with thumbnails before, so I first tried to get some information about how deal with that.
After some research in the internet about thumbnails I found some helping rules for creating good thumbnails.

There are lot of rules, but that’s the one’s I liked most:

* show not only graphic, show emotions and people
* do not make your textsize to small, keep it short and readable
* show purpose, is it a training, a story, or whatever
* show a recognition factor, e.g. your branding

So looking at some examples I tried to figure out what that means, follow my examples.


*Example #1:*

I would have included some screenshoots, but since I have some doubts about violating any copyright issues, please have a look
 at the thumbnails of the following link's on youtube. This makes it not as clearly visible as with my screenshots before, but I guess you will see it, otherwise just contact me:


_How to peel a pineapple_

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P2_WqZ834-o

_How to peel a mango_

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Xw-rPb42kY

_How to peel a watermelon_

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Cor6_btAWA


I like that in the first shot, but there are also some con's in relation to our situtation

*pro's*

*  even if you not see a person, the hands show action and make me curious
*  the mango video has a text which describes in view words what I can expect if I choose to look that video
*  a good approach for a uniform design

*con's*

* different text styles
* the watermelon video has a different size of the board, which disturbes the unity
* no branding

*Example #2:*

This youtube example has a pretty clear thumbnail but also there is a list of con's

_Kotlin Tutorial Deutsch für Anfänger - das moderne Java_

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HcFY9NSgXkk&list=PLNmsVeXQZj7rylgyThgUldHG8KE6Nbc1O

*pro's* 

* short text, big letters
* branding clearly visible

*con's*

* no time stamps
* no people, no emotions
* each thumbnail is the same

*Example #3:*

This similar to example #2, but here you can see clearly the disadvantage of to small text

_Git & GitHub Tutorial for Beginners_

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3RjQznt-8kE&list=PL4cUxeGkcC9goXbgTDQ0n_4TBzOO0ocPR

*pro's* 

* branding clearly visible

*con's*

* to much text, to small letters
* no people, no emotions
* each thumbnail is the same


*Example #4:*

Look at this example. That's great regaring people and emotion, but has no branding or purpose. For TED I guess this is ok, for us I guess the branding should be visible.

_The 20 Most-Watched TEDTalks_

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iG9CE55wbtY&list=PL70DEC2B0568B5469

*pro's*

* showing people and emotions

*con's*

* no branding
* no purpose



*So, what's my conclusion:*

* I  would propose to kepp showing the speakers
* I would propose to add branding
* I would propose to have a bold text what it is about.

There are already good frames choosen for each video, showing people and emotions, which I really like and from my point of view
they are already inviting to have a look into the video. 

But, to fullfill the upper rules I added:

* the _InnerSource_ logo in a colored box, color is the same as on our home page. This for having the recognition factor
* added the internet name of our homepage. (I tried to find the same font)
* added purpose by pointing it out as Learning Path and the section it is about.
* added chapter number and title of the chapter. Looking at the result I guess this is still to small font size, meanwhile I tend to leave the title out
and only show the number.

Here some examples:

image::example5.jpg[]
