introduction/outline.asciidoc, before:

:doctype: book

The purpose of this document is the hold the supplementary and planning material related to the content of the introductory segments of this learning path.

== Goals

These learning path segments are the first in a series introducing InnerSource.
This learning path should be the focal point and shared context of the current public conversation around InnerSource.
In order to achieve that goal, this introduction must provide:

* Compelling and clear definitions around 5 key terms:
 ** Host (team)
 ** Guest (team)
 ** Trusted Committer
 ** Product Owner
 ** Contributor
* Guardrails for the minimum viable attributes of InnerSource:
 ** Voluntary Code Contribution
 ** Prioritized Mentorship
* Interest and anticipation for viewers to watch the remaining learning path segments

== Audience

The audience for this learning path is anyone that has heard of InnerSource.

== Outline

=== Introduction

Introduce the topic, why it's important, and what the viewer will learn in this learning path.

=== Justification

Share a hypothetical (yet believable) example situation that illustrates the difficulties today in the off-the-shelf process of collaborating across organizational silos.
This given situation will be the basis to-which we refer throughout the learning path, most notably when introducing the 5 key terms and heading off misconceptions about InnerSource.

=== Solution

Show how the players in the example situation can collaborate via InnerSource to overcome their difficulty.
Explain the benefits of this approach.
While giving this explanation, naturally include clear definitions of the 5 key terms and also wording specifically designed to dispel misconceptions about InnerSource.

=== Further Explanation

Delve into some "`gotchas`" and more nuanced points about the InnerSource process.
Consider strategic use of short and compelling anecdotes to cement key parts of the message further.
Trend towards including material in this section that further dispels InnerSource misconceptions and also sets the stage for the upcoming segments in the learning path.

=== Conclusion

Review the key points of this learning path and tee up viewers to look for the next segments.
Invite interested viewers to participate in the InnerSource Commons.

Commit message:

Adding a metaphor of hammers as tools used in silos
Adding an outline

introduction/outline.asciidoc, after:

:doctype: book

The purpose of this document is to hold the supplementary and planning material related to the content of the introductory segments of this learning path.

== Goals

These learning path segments are the first in a series introducing InnerSource.
This learning path should be the focal point and shared context of the current public conversation around InnerSource.
In order to achieve that goal, this introduction must provide:

* Compelling and clear definitions around 5 key terms:
 ** Host (team)
 ** Guest (team)
 ** Trusted Committer
 ** Product Owner
 ** Contributor
* Guardrails for the minimum viable attributes of InnerSource:
 ** Voluntary Code Contribution
 ** Prioritized Mentorship
* Interest and anticipation for viewers to watch the remaining learning path segments

== Audience

The audience for this learning path is anyone that has heard of InnerSource.

== Outline

=== Introduction

Introduce the topic, why it's important, and what the viewer will learn in this learning path. Including the problem of silos and the metaphor of hammers and spanners as tools.

=== Justification

Share a hypothetical (yet believable) example situation that illustrates the difficulties today in the off-the-shelf process of collaborating across organizational silos.
This given situation will be the basis to-which we refer throughout the learning path, most notably when introducing the 5 key terms and heading off misconceptions about InnerSource. Expanding on the example with the challenges of silos and the need for a customer-focused approach.

=== Solution

Show how the players in the example situation can collaborate via InnerSource to overcome their difficulty.
Explain the benefits of this approach, including centralizing tools and resources, sharing digital artifacts, and distributing responsibility across departments.
While giving this explanation, naturally include clear definitions of the 5 key terms and also wording specifically designed to dispel misconceptions about InnerSource.

=== Further Explanation

Delve into some "`gotchas`" and more nuanced points about the InnerSource process.
Consider strategic use of short and compelling anecdotes to cement key parts of the message further.
Discuss resource allocation, collaboration, and the role of InnerSource in breaking down silos.
Trend towards including material in this section that further dispels InnerSource misconceptions and also sets the stage for the upcoming segments in the learning path.

=== Conclusion

Review the key points of this learning path, including the importance of breaking down silos and the role of InnerSource in fostering collaboration.
Tee up viewers to look for the next segments and invite interested viewers to participate in the InnerSource Commons.
