contributor/01-introduction-article.md, before:

# Draft comments

 Please watch the [Intro to InnerSource Video](https://www.safaribooksonline.com/videos/introduction-to-innersource/9781492041504)
* Also watch the [Introduction](https://learning.oreilly.com/videos/the-trusted-committer/9781492047599/9781492047599-video323925) to the Trusted Committer role.
* The [Lowering the Barriers to Entry](https://learning.oreilly.com/videos/the-trusted-committer/9781492047599/9781492047599-video323929) video of the Trusted Committer role can be a good addition to understand more of why the Trusted Committer might ask for different things.

## Outline based Target
### The Contributor in InnerSource

  - Introduce the speaker. - only required for the video script I'd say. 
  - Quick overview of the _Contributor_ role.
  - Summary of the roles of InnerSource and how each relates to _Contributor_.
  - Summary of the upcoming segments and what each covers.

Outline for this section inspired by the [Trusted Committer introduction article](link).

## Video Play-book based Target
How do I best contribute to an InnerSource project?  This segment shares a summary of what it means to be an InnerSource Contributor.  We'll also give an overview of the upcoming training segments on being a great InnerSource Contributor.



# Article

## The Contributor in InnerSource.

Without contributions, an InnerSource community and its project(s) would not exist in a meaningful way.
There would be open repositories, ideally equipped with somewhat specific extra documents (e.g. a CONTRIBUTING.md and a README.md) and person(s) committing to them, e.g. a Trusted Committer.
[EDITOR NOTE:
- In other articles we draw a distinction between guest and host team.
- We argue that the Committer is part of the guest team and needs to fit in with the host team.
- In a more-than-one-person project what do we call the people aside of the TC/PO that are members of the host team? Just team members?
        - OSS would likely not make this distinction and everyone would end up as contributor until it's committer / trusted committer at some point I guess?
        - In the ASF-Rule-set this would be the distinction between Developer and Committer.
]

The Contributor role describes a person that makes contributions to an InnerSource community.
A contribution can be a code or non-code artifact such as a bug-report, an addition to documentation or a feature request. 
[EDITOR-NOTE: IMPORTANT we should probably distinguish that just requesting is not already InnerSource or phrase this accordingly].

This person may or may not be part or see themselves as part of the community.
However, for quite a few people there is a sort of journey contributors can make from just knowing about the community to using the community's product to interacting with members of the community and finally starting to contribute.
Finally, some of them may even become Trusted Committers.


## Summary of the roles of InnerSource and how each relates to _Contributor_.

As a Contributor in an InnerSource community you will interact with people playing other roles of InnerSource, such as Trusted Committer or Product Owner and possibly also other contributors.
At times, these roles can be played by the same person, such as Trusted Committer and Product Owner in small grass-roots style projects.

This section gives you a very short overview of the other two roles but we'd like to encourage you to read the [introductory article of the Trusted Committer role]() and recommended to read the [Lowering the barriers to entry]() article too before you delve deeper into the details of the Contributor role in this section.
You can also watch the videos ([introduction](intro-trusted-committer),[lowering the barriers to entry](tc-lowering-the-barriers-to-entry)) instead of the articles.

### Trusted Committer

A Trusted Committer will be your host for your stay in the hosting community.
They are the gatekeepers to the project's code repository and will move your contribution closer to production once they accepted it. 
It is their role to mentor you on your way to contributing to their community, e.g. by providing good information to enable you to help yourself or help you in other cases.
Such information could be established house rules for reviews, proposal of larger changes,  pointers to documentation or code sections relevant for your contribution.

They also need to care about product quality, sustainability and project evolution from a technical as well as general perspective, about reducing the barrier to making to contributions for everyone as well as about caring for their community in general.
Caring for the community involves keeping it healthy, upleveling it and its participants and advocating its needs in their organization.


### Product Owner
[EDITOR NOTE: We actually have no defined articles here. Below rough draft is based upon https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourceLearningPath/pull/96/files#diff-1fc7c3a09a5ec014a5ba5313dc6473fa]
The role of the Product Owner has some similarity with the product owner role of your average project.
However, there are some differences - depending on the size of the project, this role is often filled by the same person that acts as trusted committer.
In larger projects or in teams that only partially use InnerSource as an approach to fill their needs by accepting contributions this role is likely filled by a person separate from a trusted committer.

Your interaction with this role will likely focus on working out the fit of your contribution into the general product and its road map. 
You might work this role to make sure that general aspects of documentation or consistency of UI/UX are kept upon merging your contribution.  

Last but not least someone acting as product owner might have been involved in bringing the project, its benefits and community to your attention. 


If you want to learn in more detail what these other roles are about, and we encourage you to do so, we've prepared sections about the [Trusted Committer](link) and the [Product Owner](link) too.


## Overview of this section and its segments
In the following 5 videos you will learn more in detail about the various aspects introduced before. 

The second segment, i.e. the one after this segment, will detail _mindset and habit_ that create opportunities to _become an InnerSource Contributor_.

In the third segment we'll look into the _ethos of the Contributor_ - i.e. aspects of _behavior_ that will lead to a pleasant and productive time for you and the home team and might spark more collaboration.
The guest-in-home analogy presented in the introductory videos will serve as a vivid example. 

The fourth segment describes the hands-on things to do to make your contribution a success.
We'll give practical tips to leverage when preparing to work on a contribution, during development, and also in the pull request.  

After we've dealt with the personal interaction-focused and technical of the contributor role, the fifth segment presents the benefits of making the effort to contribute from various perspectives: Your perspective, your team's perspective, and the company's perspective at large.

The last segment will recap what we've learned about being an InnerSource contributor.  We'll share how you can continue your learning on InnerSource both with with other online videos and also involvement with the online InnerSource community.


[intro-innersource]:https://www.safaribooksonline.com/videos/introduction-to-innersource/9781492041504
[intro-trusted-comitter]:https://learning.oreilly.com/videos/the-trusted-committer/9781492047599/9781492047599-video323925
[tc-lowering-the-barriers-to-entry]:https://learning.oreilly.com/videos/the-trusted-committer/9781492047599/9781492047599-video323929

Commit message:

Rewrite introductory paragraphs
To appeal to an individual who just cares about making progress on their project.

contributor/01-introduction-article.md, after:

# Draft comments

 Please watch the [Intro to InnerSource Video](https://www.safaribooksonline.com/videos/introduction-to-innersource/9781492041504)
* Also watch the [Introduction](https://learning.oreilly.com/videos/the-trusted-committer/9781492047599/9781492047599-video323925) to the Trusted Committer role.
* The [Lowering the Barriers to Entry](https://learning.oreilly.com/videos/the-trusted-committer/9781492047599/9781492047599-video323929) video of the Trusted Committer role can be a good addition to understand more of why the Trusted Committer might ask for different things.

## Outline based Target
### The Contributor in InnerSource

  - Introduce the speaker. - only required for the video script I'd say. 
  - Quick overview of the _Contributor_ role.
  - Summary of the roles of InnerSource and how each relates to _Contributor_.
  - Summary of the upcoming segments and what each covers.

Outline for this section inspired by the [Trusted Committer introduction article](link).

## Video Play-book based Target
How do I best contribute to an InnerSource project?  This segment shares a summary of what it means to be an InnerSource Contributor.  We'll also give an overview of the upcoming training segments on being a great InnerSource Contributor.



# Article

## The Contributor in InnerSource.

Have you ever been blocked in your next coding task because another team didn't have time to add a feature in their system that you depend on?
Perhaps after a while you even had to do some extra work in your project to work around the missing feature.
How nice would it be to never be blocked in this way?

With projects that run via InnerSource, you'll never be blocked waiting for another team to deliver some needed feature.
If you're not getting what you need you can make the change you need directly in the other team's code repository by acting as an InnerSource Contributor.

The Contributor role describes a person that makes contributions to an InnerSource community.
A contribution can be a code or non-code artifact such as a bug-report, an addition to documentation or a feature request. 
[EDITOR-NOTE: IMPORTANT we should probably distinguish that just requesting is not already InnerSource or phrase this accordingly].

This person may or may not be part or see themselves as part of the community.
However, for quite a few people there is a sort of journey contributors can make from just knowing about the community to using the community's product to interacting with members of the community and finally starting to contribute.
Finally, some of them may even become Trusted Committers.


## Summary of the roles of InnerSource and how each relates to _Contributor_.

As a Contributor in an InnerSource community you will interact with people playing other roles of InnerSource, such as Trusted Committer or Product Owner and possibly also other contributors.
At times, these roles can be played by the same person, such as Trusted Committer and Product Owner in small grass-roots style projects.

This section gives you a very short overview of the other two roles but we'd like to encourage you to read the [introductory article of the Trusted Committer role]() and recommended to read the [Lowering the barriers to entry]() article too before you delve deeper into the details of the Contributor role in this section.
You can also watch the videos ([introduction](intro-trusted-committer),[lowering the barriers to entry](tc-lowering-the-barriers-to-entry)) instead of the articles.

### Trusted Committer

A Trusted Committer will be your host for your stay in the hosting community.
They are the gatekeepers to the project's code repository and will move your contribution closer to production once they accepted it. 
It is their role to mentor you on your way to contributing to their community, e.g. by providing good information to enable you to help yourself or help you in other cases.
Such information could be established house rules for reviews, proposal of larger changes,  pointers to documentation or code sections relevant for your contribution.

They also need to care about product quality, sustainability and project evolution from a technical as well as general perspective, about reducing the barrier to making to contributions for everyone as well as about caring for their community in general.
Caring for the community involves keeping it healthy, upleveling it and its participants and advocating its needs in their organization.


### Product Owner
[EDITOR NOTE: We actually have no defined articles here. Below rough draft is based upon https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourceLearningPath/pull/96/files#diff-1fc7c3a09a5ec014a5ba5313dc6473fa]
The role of the Product Owner has some similarity with the product owner role of your average project.
However, there are some differences - depending on the size of the project, this role is often filled by the same person that acts as trusted committer.
In larger projects or in teams that only partially use InnerSource as an approach to fill their needs by accepting contributions this role is likely filled by a person separate from a trusted committer.

Your interaction with this role will likely focus on working out the fit of your contribution into the general product and its road map. 
You might work this role to make sure that general aspects of documentation or consistency of UI/UX are kept upon merging your contribution.  

Last but not least someone acting as product owner might have been involved in bringing the project, its benefits and community to your attention. 


If you want to learn in more detail what these other roles are about, and we encourage you to do so, we've prepared sections about the [Trusted Committer](link) and the [Product Owner](link) too.


## Overview of this section and its segments
In the following 5 videos you will learn more in detail about the various aspects introduced before. 

The second segment, i.e. the one after this segment, will detail _mindset and habit_ that create opportunities to _become an InnerSource Contributor_.

In the third segment we'll look into the _ethos of the Contributor_ - i.e. aspects of _behavior_ that will lead to a pleasant and productive time for you and the home team and might spark more collaboration.
The guest-in-home analogy presented in the introductory videos will serve as a vivid example. 

The fourth segment describes the hands-on things to do to make your contribution a success.
We'll give practical tips to leverage when preparing to work on a contribution, during development, and also in the pull request.  

After we've dealt with the personal interaction-focused and technical of the contributor role, the fifth segment presents the benefits of making the effort to contribute from various perspectives: Your perspective, your team's perspective, and the company's perspective at large.

The last segment will recap what we've learned about being an InnerSource contributor.  We'll share how you can continue your learning on InnerSource both with with other online videos and also involvement with the online InnerSource community.


[intro-innersource]:https://www.safaribooksonline.com/videos/introduction-to-innersource/9781492041504
[intro-trusted-comitter]:https://learning.oreilly.com/videos/the-trusted-committer/9781492047599/9781492047599-video323925
[tc-lowering-the-barriers-to-entry]:https://learning.oreilly.com/videos/the-trusted-committer/9781492047599/9781492047599-video323929
