contributor/03-contributor-ethos-script.md, before:

#Script: The Contributor in InnerSource - Contributor Ethos

## Duration: 5-6 Mintes

## Actors: Isabel and Johannes

## Playbook Summary

A Contributor to an InnerSource project is like a guest in a home.  How should a Contributor behave in order to have a pleasant visit and also to receive a return invitation?  This segment describes how to be a good Contributor in terms of this guest-in-home analogy.

## Script

I: In the previous video section we took a closer look at when to become an
InnerSource contributor. We also investigate which types of contributions
InnerSource projects typically are looking for. In this video you will learn
more about how to be a good contributor following the guest-in-home analogy.

-> Show being a guest slide

J: So you are planning to support an InnerSource project of your choice. How do
you get started? InnerSource contributors understand that essentially they are
guests in the house of the host team. When visiting your neighbors - even if
their door is open, you probably won't enter without knocking on the door first.

The same is true for a lot of InnerSource projects: Inviting contributions from
the outside does not imply giving write access to everyone right from the start.
Instead you will submit your changes through a pull request or proposed patchset and have them
reviewed by existing trusted committers.

I: Much like in the real world you'll follow contributions guidelines set by the
host project. In turn, those active in the project will mentor you and show you
around.

J: So - is the process the same for all types of changes? Let's look at a
specific scenario in the real world. Remember that lovely summer party that you
went to at your friends' place? Likely before knocking on the door you received
an invitation with a set time and date. Likely your friends spent some time
planning for there to be enough food available.

I: The same is true if you need major modifications in an InnerSource project:
Likely you'll first submit an issue proposing your changes, discussing
architectural options - maybe even finding a suitable start date so the trusted
committers have enough bandwidth to mentor you throughout the change. Most
likely you will be encouraged to share your progress early. Like Yonik's law of
patches states:

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/solr/HowToContribute

"A half-baked patch in Jira, with no documentation, no tests
and no backwards compatibility is better than no patch at all."

Sharing progress early on makes it easier for those providing mentorship to do
so early, guiding you towards a great solution, showing you caveats that may not
be obvious to you as contributor. Sharing this project in a way that is visible
for the entire InnerSource project instead of in one-on-one settings enables
everyone involved to help you out. Essentially that means sharing a lot more in
writing and visible to others than in other common software engineering
projects.

J: Does that mean that there's no space for face to face communication? Of course
not: Teams and friendships need a certain level of face to face interaction.
Don't be surprised though if Trusted Committers are directing you back to the
canonical written, archived, searchable medium.

J: Now, once you're clear to participate in the InnerSource project of your
choice - will you be able to carry over the same established collaboration
practices that you're used to from your own team? Likely only partially:


-> Show following house rules slide.

I: When visiting your neighbors - they'll show you around. If you're staying for
longer, they'll tell you what's particular about their home. In my case you
shouldn't turn on the dish washer and the electric kettle at the same time -
otherwise you'll blow the fuse.

J: You can expect the same explanations of how things work at InnerSource projects:
You'll find that in their README.md (or alternatively in a document called
CONTRIBUTING.md) you'll find hints about how to contribute: This document will
contain information on where to check the project out, how to build the project
and how to run the test suite. It will list anything that deviates from standard
tooling.

I: Typically looking at this documentation saves you a lot of ramp up time as it
stops you from trial and error but also from going down the wrong path. Just as
with the source code itself - if you find things are missing from your point of
view as an early contributor: Suggest these additions to the documentation.

J: The more you contribute to a project, the closer you will feel you belong to
that project's team - maybe at some point you'll be invited to be part of it as
another trusted committer. However as long as you're approaching the project as
a contributor you should understand that you are a guest to the InnerSource
project. Ultimately accountability for the project lies with the existing
Trusted Committers. As such they are the ones who make a final call on what
contributions need to look like. Also they are the ones making the final call on
whether or not to accept a contribution.

I: In this section we looked at how to get started submitting your contributions
to the host team, which rules to follow and how to learn more about how the host
team operates. In the following section we will take a closer look at the actual
mechanics of creating and submitting contributions.

Commit message:

shortened as it didn't fit even in six minutes

contributor/03-contributor-ethos-script.md, after:

#Script: The Contributor in InnerSource - Contributor Ethos

## Duration: 5-6 Mintes

## Actors: Isabel and Johannes

## Playbook Summary

A Contributor to an InnerSource project is like a guest in a home.  How should a Contributor behave in order to have a pleasant visit and also to receive a return invitation?  This segment describes how to be a good Contributor in terms of this guest-in-home analogy.

## Script

I: In the previous video section we took a closer look at when to become an
InnerSource contributor. We also investigated which types of contributions
InnerSource projects typically are looking for. In this video you will learn
more about how to be a good contributor following the guest-in-home analogy.

-> Show being a guest slide

J: So you are planning to support an InnerSource project. How do
you get started? InnerSource contributors understand that essentially they are
guests in the house of the host team. When visiting your neighbors - even if
their door is open, you probably won't enter without knocking on the door first.

The same is true for a lot of InnerSource projects: Inviting contributions from
the outside does not imply giving write access to everyone right from the start.
Instead you will submit your changes through a pull request or patchset and have them
reviewed.

I: Much like in the real world you'll follow contributions guidelines set by the
host project. In turn, those active in the project will mentor you.

J: So - is the process the same for all types of changes? Let's look at a
specific scenario in the real world. Remember that lovely summer party that you
went to at your friends' place? Likely before knocking on the door you received
an invitation with a set time and date. Likely your friends spent some time
planning for there to be enough food available.

I: The same is true if you need major modifications in an InnerSource project:
Likely you'll first submit an issue proposing your changes, discussing
architectural options. Most
likely you will be encouraged to share your progress early. Like Yonik's law of
patches states:

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/solr/HowToContribute

"A half-baked patch in Jira, with no documentation, no tests
and no backwards compatibility is better than no patch at all."

Sharing progress early on makes it easier to guide you towards a great solution, showing you caveats. 
Sharing this project in a way that is visible
for the entire InnerSource project enables
everyone involved to help you out. Essentially that means sharing a lot more in
writing and visible to others.

J: Does that mean that there's no space for face to face communication? Of course
not: Teams need a certain level of face to face interaction.
Don't be surprised though if Trusted Committers are directing you back to the
canonical written, archived, searchable medium.

J: Now, once you're clear to participate in the InnerSource project - will you be 
able to carry over the same collaboration
practices that you're used to from your own team? Likely only partially:


-> Show following house rules slide.

I: When visiting your neighbors - they'll show you around. If you're staying for
longer, they'll tell you what's particular about their home. In my case you
shouldn't turn on the dish washer and the electric kettle at the same time -
otherwise you'll blow the fuse.

J: You can expect the same explanations of how things work at InnerSource projects:
You'll find that in their README.md (or alternatively in a document called
CONTRIBUTING.md) the project has written down
information to get you started. It will list anything that deviates from standard
tooling.

I: Typically looking at this documentation saves you a lot of ramp up time as it
stops you from trial and error but also from going down the wrong path.

J: The more you contribute to a project, the closer you will feel you belong to
that project's team - maybe at some point you'll be invited to be part of it as
another trusted committer. However as long as you're approaching the project as
a contributor you should understand that you are a guest to the InnerSource
project. Ultimately accountability for the project lies with the existing
Trusted Committers. As such they are the ones who make a final call on what
contributions need to look like. Also they are the ones making the final call on
whether or not to accept a contribution.

I: In this section we looked at how to get started submitting your contributions
to the host team, which rules to follow and how to learn more about how the host
team operates. In the following section we will take a closer look at the actual
mechanics of creating and submitting contributions.
